readme.md, before:

# The Power Of CLI (NodeJS)

> Presentation for the NodeWeek conference at Globant Medellin CO in August 2019. 

Before we begin we must choose a name for our CLI, and for this particular case I have chosen `"nodewk"`.

# Chapter One 🎬

> Basic concepts to create a CLI in NodeJS 

## Let's know to `process.argv`

`process` is an object created when a `script` is running in NodeJS and it contains information about the current process and within its properties we find the `argv` which is an array that contains information about the command that executed the process.

`process.argv` will have at least two data and index one is the path to the NodeJS bin and index two is the path of the script being executed. 

```js
// index.js
'use strict';

const processArgv = process.argv;

console.log('Execution Arguments: ', processArgv);
console.log('I finished');

```

To execute the script we must run this command in console: 
```console
node index.js
```

When we run the script we'll get this:

```console
$ node index.js
Execution Arguments: [ 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node.exe', 'E:\\Repos\\node-cli\\index.js' ]
I finished
```

## Let's make our CLI executable

To do this we have to talk about `Shebang` (`#!`) which is a sequence used on UNIX systems to indicate that a text file is an `executable` and its format is `#!interpreter [optional-arg]`.

So knowing this all we have to do is add at the beginning of our script the line `#!/usr/bin/env node` to tell the system that it is an executable file with the bin of `node`.

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const processArgv = process.argv;

console.log('Execution Arguments: ', processArgv);
console.log('I finished');

```

But wait, we're gonna have to do two more things to make this work: 

- First add a branch to our `package.json` file as follows using the `name` we chose for our CLI as shown below:

```json
"bin": {
  "nodewk": "./index.js"
}

```

- Second, we must `link` our application, which will allow us to run our application as if it had been installed directly from `npm` and for that we only have to run:  

```console
npm link
```

And then we execute 

```console
nodewk
```

Then in console we have the following result

```console 
$ nodewk
Execution Arguments: [ 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node.exe', 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node_modules\\node-cli\\index.js' ]
I finished
```

Then we will be able to see how our application was linked as if it were a npm package since our script is executed from the `node_modules` folder of `nodejs` and this we notice in the index one of the arguments array `argv`.


# Chapter Two 🎬

> Obtain and transform the user parameters

## Let's get the user parameters 

Imagine that our CLI application `"nodewk"` has some actions, for this case we will use only `action`, and then in the console we enter the following:  

```console
$ nodewk action --param1 value1 --param2 value2 --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
```

Then we will modify our script to separate the system parameters from the user parameters and we have the following: 

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const processArgv = process.argv;

if (!processArgv[2]) {
  console.log('No entry');
  process.exit(1);
} else {
  console.log('System params: ', processArgv.splice(0, 2));
  console.log('User params: ', processArgv.splice(2));
}
```
And by executing our command, we will have a result:

```console
$ nodewk action --param1 value1 --param2 value2 --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
System params:  [ 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node.exe', 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node_modules\\node-cli\\index.js' ]
User params:  [ 'action', '--param1', 'value1', '--param2', 'value2', '--param3', 'value3', '--paramN', 'valueN' ]
```
And as you can see we already have the user parameters.

## Transform the user parameters

For this task we are going to require a function that receives the array of user arguments and allows us to manage it in a more efficient way, for example by means of an object, then our function would be the following one: 

```js
const convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments = (argsV, separator) => {
  // Convert args array to string command
  const commandStr = argsV.join(' ');
  // Create a new array througt the separator (--)
  const commandOptions = commandStr.split(separator);
  // Create a object options with the command action
  const options = {
    action: commandOptions[0].split(' ').filter(param => param !== '')[0],
  };
  // Delete the action element of array
  commandOptions.shift();
  for (let index = 0; index < commandOptions.length; index++) {
    // Build and array params
    const params = commandOptions[index].split(' ');
    // Filter garbage data for the addicional spaces
    const fixParams = params.filter(param => param !== '');
    // Set the option and value(s)
    options[fixParams[0]] = fixParams.length > 2 ? fixParams.slice(1) : fixParams[1];
  }
  return options;
}
``` 

Then our new script will look like this:

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const separator = '--';
const processArgv = process.argv;

const convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments = (argsV, separator) => {
  const commandStr = argsV.join(' ');
  const commandOptions = commandStr.split(separator);
  const options = {
    action: commandOptions[0].split(' ').filter(param => param !== '')[0],
  };
  commandOptions.shift();
  for (let index = 0; index < commandOptions.length; index++) {
    const params = commandOptions[index].split(' ');
    const fixParams = params.filter(param => param !== '');
    options[fixParams[0]] = fixParams.length > 2 ? fixParams.slice(1) : fixParams[1];
  }
  return options;
}

if (!processArgv[2]) {
  console.log('No entry');
  process.exit(1);
} else {
  console.log('System params: ', processArgv.slice(0, 2));
  const options = convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments(processArgv.splice(2), separator);
  console.log('User params: ', options);
}
```
Now we execute the following command

```console
nodewk ourAction --param1 value1A value1B --param2 value2A value2B value2C --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
```

And we will obtain the following result, where the options entered by the user are available in an object ready to be used

```console
$ nodewk ourAction --param1 value1A value1B --param2 value2A value2B value2C --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
System params: [ 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node.exe', 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node_modules\\node-cli\\index.js' ]
User params: { 
  action: 'ourAction',
  param1: [ 'value1A', 'value1B' ],
  param2: [ 'value2A', 'value2B', 'value2C' ],
  param3: 'value3',
  paramN: 'valueN' 
}
```

# Chapter Three 🎬 

Well, at this point we have almost everything ready for our CLI application, however we are going to organize a little our script creating a main function, we are going to refactor some code and also we are going to eliminate unnecessary logs.

## Refactor, create main function and delete unnecesary logs

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const separator = '--';

const convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments = (argsV, separator) => {
  const commandStr = argsV.join(' ');
  const commandOptions = commandStr.split(separator);
  const options = {
    action: commandOptions[0].split(' ').filter(param => param !== '')[0],
  };
  commandOptions.shift();
  for (let index = 0; index < commandOptions.length; index++) {
    const params = commandOptions[index].split(' ');
    const fixParams = params.filter(param => param !== '');
    options[fixParams[0]] = fixParams.length > 2 ? fixParams.slice(1) : fixParams[1];
  }
  return options;
}

const main = async () => {
  const processArgv = process.argv;
  if (!processArgv[2]) {
    console.log('No entry');
    process.exit(1);
  }
  const options = convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments(processArgv.splice(2), separator);
  console.log('User params: ', options);
}

main();
```

And we verify that nothing happened, so we have

```js
$ nodewk ourAction --param1 value1A value1B --param2 value2A value2B value2C --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
User params:  { 
  action: 'ourAction',
  param1: [ 'value1A', 'value1B' ],
  param2: [ 'value2A', 'value2B', 'value2C' ],
  param3: 'value3',
  paramN: 'valueN' 
}
```

## Process the user arguments

Now we are going to create the function where we will process the options of our CLI and for them we will define to put an example that our CLI will have the options of `create`, `search`, `edit`, `delete` and `process`.  Then having this we go to the code and create a function like the following: 

```js
const processAction = options => {
  const action = options.action;
  delete options.action;
  switch (action) {
    case 'create':
      console.log('We to create anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'search':
      console.log('We to search anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'edit':
      console.log('We to edit anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'delete':
      console.log('We to delete anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'process':
      console.log('We to process anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    default: 
      console.log('You must send a valid action.');
  }
}
```

Then our new script will look like this:

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const separator = '--';

const convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments = (argsV, separator) => {
  const commandStr = argsV.join(' ');
  const commandOptions = commandStr.split(separator);
  const options = {
    action: commandOptions[0].split(' ').filter(param => param !== '')[0],
  };
  commandOptions.shift();
  for (let index = 0; index < commandOptions.length; index++) {
    const params = commandOptions[index].split(' ');
    const fixParams = params.filter(param => param !== '');
    options[fixParams[0]] = fixParams.length > 2 ? fixParams.slice(1) : fixParams[1];
  }
  return options;
}

const processAction = options => {
  const action = options.action;
  delete options.action;
  switch (action) {
    case 'create':
      console.log('We to create anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'search':
      console.log('We to search anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'edit':
      console.log('We to edit anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'delete':
      console.log('We to delete anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'process':
      console.log('We to process anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    default:
    console.log('You must send a valid action.');
  }
}

const main = async () => {
  const processArgv = process.argv;
  if (!processArgv[2]) {
    console.log('No entry');
    process.exit(1);
  }
  const options = convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments(processArgv.splice(2), separator);
  processAction(options);
}

main();
```

And then by executing one of our actions we will have: 

```js
$ nodewk create --param1 value1A value1B --param2 value2A value2B value2C --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
We to create something with this params:  
{ param1: [ 'value1A', 'value1B' ],
  param2: [ 'value2A', 'value2B', 'value2C' ],
  param3: 'value3',
  paramN: 'valueN' 
}
```

But in case of executing an option that is not contemplated within the ones allowed by our code we will also have an answer:

```js
$ nodewk ourAction --param1 value1A value1B --param2 value2A value2B value2C --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
You must send a valid action.
```

# Chapter Four 🎬

But wait, that code can be improved and a switch looks ugly in the code, so let's refactor that and as a result we'll have:

## How to convert a switch statement to a nicer code

It's not that a switch can't be used in software development, but there are better ways to replace the functionality provided by a switch, such as the following change:

```js
const processAction = options => {
  const action = options.action;
  const actions = {
    create: createSomething,
    search: searchSomething,
    edit: editSomething,
    delete: deleteSomething,
    process: processSomething,
    default: noEntry
  };
  delete options.action;
  const result = actions[action] ? actions[action](options) : actions.default();
  return result;
}
```

Then finally our new script will look like this:

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const separator = '--';

const convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments = (argsV, separator) => {
  const commandStr = argsV.join(' ');
  const commandOptions = commandStr.split(separator);
  const options = {
    action: commandOptions[0].split(' ').filter(param => param !== '')[0],
  };
  commandOptions.shift();
  for (let index = 0; index < commandOptions.length; index++) {
    const params = commandOptions[index].split(' ');
    const fixParams = params.filter(param => param !== '');
    options[fixParams[0]] = fixParams.length > 2 ? fixParams.slice(1) : fixParams[1];
  }
  return options;
}

const createSomething = options => {
  console.log('We to create something with this params: ', options);
}

const searchSomething = options => {
  console.log('We to search something with this params: ', options);
}

const editSomething = options => {
  console.log('We to edit something with this params: ', options);
}

const deleteSomething = options => {
  console.log('We to create something with this params: ', options);
}

const processSomething = options => {
  console.log('We to create something with this params: ', options);
}

const noEntry = () => {
  console.log('You must send a valid action');
};

const processAction = options => {
  const action = options.action;
  const actions = {
    create: createSomething,
    search: searchSomething,
    edit: editSomething,
    delete: deleteSomething,
    process: processSomething,
    default: noEntry
  };
  delete options.action;
  const result = actions[action] ? actions[action](options) : actions.default();
  return result;
}

const main = async () => {
  const processArgv = process.argv;
  if (!processArgv[2]) {
    console.log('No entry');
    process.exit(1);
  }
  const options = convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments(processArgv.splice(2), separator);
  processAction(options);
}

main();
```

Well at this point we will already have a basis for our new CLI application and from now on depends on the needs of each, so to finish we will give the reference some npm packages that will help your CLI is quite interactive.

## Tools to parse the options entered by the user

If you remember, we take the task of handling the options entered by the user in the command line, there are npm packages that do this for us, but not always install a package for such a simple solution is the best option, so we should think about whether it is really necessary because this adds dependencies to our application and in the long run could affect us in some way, either by security issues or by the simple fact that a package has other dependencies.

So here are some packages that will help you with the management of the options.

- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/minimist" target="_blank" >Minimist</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/yargs" target="_blank" >Yargs</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/commander" target="_blank" >Commander</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/args" target="_blank" >Args</a>

## Tools to add steroids to your CLI

The interactivity of your application is very important, so these tools will support you with the UX allowing your CLI to have multiple selection options, single selection, answer questions, process answers and much more.

- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer" target="_blank" >Inquirer</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/prompts" target="_blank" >Prompts</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/prompt" target="_blank" >Prompt</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/enquirer" target="_blank" >Enquirer</a>


Well, it's been a pleasure, until next time. 👽

Commit message:

add file of presentation in pdf

readme.md, after:

# The Power Of CLI (NodeJS)

> Presentation for the NodeWeek conference at Globant Medellin CO in August 2019. 

Before we begin we must choose a name for our CLI, and for this particular case I have chosen `"nodewk"`.

# Chapter One 🎬

> Basic concepts to create a CLI in NodeJS 

## Let's know to `process.argv`

`process` is an object created when a `script` is running in NodeJS and it contains information about the current process and within its properties we find the `argv` which is an array that contains information about the command that executed the process.

`process.argv` will have at least two data and index one is the path to the NodeJS bin and index two is the path of the script being executed. 

```js
// index.js
'use strict';

const processArgv = process.argv;

console.log('Execution Arguments: ', processArgv);
console.log('I finished');

```

To execute the script we must run this command in console: 
```console
node index.js
```

When we run the script we'll get this:

```console
$ node index.js
Execution Arguments: [ 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node.exe', 'E:\\Repos\\node-cli\\index.js' ]
I finished
```

## Let's make our CLI executable

To do this we have to talk about `Shebang` (`#!`) which is a sequence used on UNIX systems to indicate that a text file is an `executable` and its format is `#!interpreter [optional-arg]`.

So knowing this all we have to do is add at the beginning of our script the line `#!/usr/bin/env node` to tell the system that it is an executable file with the bin of `node`.

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const processArgv = process.argv;

console.log('Execution Arguments: ', processArgv);
console.log('I finished');

```

But wait, we're gonna have to do two more things to make this work: 

- First add a branch to our `package.json` file as follows using the `name` we chose for our CLI as shown below:

```json
"bin": {
  "nodewk": "./index.js"
}

```

- Second, we must `link` our application, which will allow us to run our application as if it had been installed directly from `npm` and for that we only have to run:  

```console
npm link
```

And then we execute 

```console
nodewk
```

Then in console we have the following result

```console 
$ nodewk
Execution Arguments: [ 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node.exe', 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node_modules\\node-cli\\index.js' ]
I finished
```

Then we will be able to see how our application was linked as if it were a npm package since our script is executed from the `node_modules` folder of `nodejs` and this we notice in the index one of the arguments array `argv`.


# Chapter Two 🎬

> Obtain and transform the user parameters

## Let's get the user parameters 

Imagine that our CLI application `"nodewk"` has some actions, for this case we will use only `action`, and then in the console we enter the following:  

```console
$ nodewk action --param1 value1 --param2 value2 --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
```

Then we will modify our script to separate the system parameters from the user parameters and we have the following: 

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const processArgv = process.argv;

if (!processArgv[2]) {
  console.log('No entry');
  process.exit(1);
} else {
  console.log('System params: ', processArgv.splice(0, 2));
  console.log('User params: ', processArgv.splice(2));
}
```
And by executing our command, we will have a result:

```console
$ nodewk action --param1 value1 --param2 value2 --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
System params:  [ 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node.exe', 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node_modules\\node-cli\\index.js' ]
User params:  [ 'action', '--param1', 'value1', '--param2', 'value2', '--param3', 'value3', '--paramN', 'valueN' ]
```
And as you can see we already have the user parameters.

## Transform the user parameters

For this task we are going to require a function that receives the array of user arguments and allows us to manage it in a more efficient way, for example by means of an object, then our function would be the following one: 

```js
const convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments = (argsV, separator) => {
  // Convert args array to string command
  const commandStr = argsV.join(' ');
  // Create a new array througt the separator (--)
  const commandOptions = commandStr.split(separator);
  // Create a object options with the command action
  const options = {
    action: commandOptions[0].split(' ').filter(param => param !== '')[0],
  };
  // Delete the action element of array
  commandOptions.shift();
  for (let index = 0; index < commandOptions.length; index++) {
    // Build and array params
    const params = commandOptions[index].split(' ');
    // Filter garbage data for the addicional spaces
    const fixParams = params.filter(param => param !== '');
    // Set the option and value(s)
    options[fixParams[0]] = fixParams.length > 2 ? fixParams.slice(1) : fixParams[1];
  }
  return options;
}
``` 

Then our new script will look like this:

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const separator = '--';
const processArgv = process.argv;

const convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments = (argsV, separator) => {
  const commandStr = argsV.join(' ');
  const commandOptions = commandStr.split(separator);
  const options = {
    action: commandOptions[0].split(' ').filter(param => param !== '')[0],
  };
  commandOptions.shift();
  for (let index = 0; index < commandOptions.length; index++) {
    const params = commandOptions[index].split(' ');
    const fixParams = params.filter(param => param !== '');
    options[fixParams[0]] = fixParams.length > 2 ? fixParams.slice(1) : fixParams[1];
  }
  return options;
}

if (!processArgv[2]) {
  console.log('No entry');
  process.exit(1);
} else {
  console.log('System params: ', processArgv.slice(0, 2));
  const options = convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments(processArgv.splice(2), separator);
  console.log('User params: ', options);
}
```
Now we execute the following command

```console
nodewk ourAction --param1 value1A value1B --param2 value2A value2B value2C --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
```

And we will obtain the following result, where the options entered by the user are available in an object ready to be used

```console
$ nodewk ourAction --param1 value1A value1B --param2 value2A value2B value2C --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
System params: [ 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node.exe', 'C:\\Program Files\\nodejs\\node_modules\\node-cli\\index.js' ]
User params: { 
  action: 'ourAction',
  param1: [ 'value1A', 'value1B' ],
  param2: [ 'value2A', 'value2B', 'value2C' ],
  param3: 'value3',
  paramN: 'valueN' 
}
```

# Chapter Three 🎬 

Well, at this point we have almost everything ready for our CLI application, however we are going to organize a little our script creating a main function, we are going to refactor some code and also we are going to eliminate unnecessary logs.

## Refactor, create main function and delete unnecesary logs

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const separator = '--';

const convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments = (argsV, separator) => {
  const commandStr = argsV.join(' ');
  const commandOptions = commandStr.split(separator);
  const options = {
    action: commandOptions[0].split(' ').filter(param => param !== '')[0],
  };
  commandOptions.shift();
  for (let index = 0; index < commandOptions.length; index++) {
    const params = commandOptions[index].split(' ');
    const fixParams = params.filter(param => param !== '');
    options[fixParams[0]] = fixParams.length > 2 ? fixParams.slice(1) : fixParams[1];
  }
  return options;
}

const main = async () => {
  const processArgv = process.argv;
  if (!processArgv[2]) {
    console.log('No entry');
    process.exit(1);
  }
  const options = convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments(processArgv.splice(2), separator);
  console.log('User params: ', options);
}

main();
```

And we verify that nothing happened, so we have

```js
$ nodewk ourAction --param1 value1A value1B --param2 value2A value2B value2C --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
User params:  { 
  action: 'ourAction',
  param1: [ 'value1A', 'value1B' ],
  param2: [ 'value2A', 'value2B', 'value2C' ],
  param3: 'value3',
  paramN: 'valueN' 
}
```

## Process the user arguments

Now we are going to create the function where we will process the options of our CLI and for them we will define to put an example that our CLI will have the options of `create`, `search`, `edit`, `delete` and `process`.  Then having this we go to the code and create a function like the following: 

```js
const processAction = options => {
  const action = options.action;
  delete options.action;
  switch (action) {
    case 'create':
      console.log('We to create anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'search':
      console.log('We to search anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'edit':
      console.log('We to edit anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'delete':
      console.log('We to delete anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'process':
      console.log('We to process anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    default: 
      console.log('You must send a valid action.');
  }
}
```

Then our new script will look like this:

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const separator = '--';

const convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments = (argsV, separator) => {
  const commandStr = argsV.join(' ');
  const commandOptions = commandStr.split(separator);
  const options = {
    action: commandOptions[0].split(' ').filter(param => param !== '')[0],
  };
  commandOptions.shift();
  for (let index = 0; index < commandOptions.length; index++) {
    const params = commandOptions[index].split(' ');
    const fixParams = params.filter(param => param !== '');
    options[fixParams[0]] = fixParams.length > 2 ? fixParams.slice(1) : fixParams[1];
  }
  return options;
}

const processAction = options => {
  const action = options.action;
  delete options.action;
  switch (action) {
    case 'create':
      console.log('We to create anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'search':
      console.log('We to search anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'edit':
      console.log('We to edit anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'delete':
      console.log('We to delete anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    case 'process':
      console.log('We to process anything with this params: ', options);
    break;
    default:
    console.log('You must send a valid action.');
  }
}

const main = async () => {
  const processArgv = process.argv;
  if (!processArgv[2]) {
    console.log('No entry');
    process.exit(1);
  }
  const options = convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments(processArgv.splice(2), separator);
  processAction(options);
}

main();
```

And then by executing one of our actions we will have: 

```js
$ nodewk create --param1 value1A value1B --param2 value2A value2B value2C --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
We to create something with this params:  
{ param1: [ 'value1A', 'value1B' ],
  param2: [ 'value2A', 'value2B', 'value2C' ],
  param3: 'value3',
  paramN: 'valueN' 
}
```

But in case of executing an option that is not contemplated within the ones allowed by our code we will also have an answer:

```js
$ nodewk ourAction --param1 value1A value1B --param2 value2A value2B value2C --param3 value3 --paramN valueN
You must send a valid action.
```

# Chapter Four 🎬

But wait, that code can be improved and a switch looks ugly in the code, so let's refactor that and as a result we'll have:

## How to convert a switch statement to a nicer code

It's not that a switch can't be used in software development, but there are better ways to replace the functionality provided by a switch, such as the following change:

```js
const processAction = options => {
  const action = options.action;
  const actions = {
    create: createSomething,
    search: searchSomething,
    edit: editSomething,
    delete: deleteSomething,
    process: processSomething,
    default: noEntry
  };
  delete options.action;
  const result = actions[action] ? actions[action](options) : actions.default();
  return result;
}
```

Then finally our new script will look like this:

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
// index.js
'use strict';

const separator = '--';

const convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments = (argsV, separator) => {
  const commandStr = argsV.join(' ');
  const commandOptions = commandStr.split(separator);
  const options = {
    action: commandOptions[0].split(' ').filter(param => param !== '')[0],
  };
  commandOptions.shift();
  for (let index = 0; index < commandOptions.length; index++) {
    const params = commandOptions[index].split(' ');
    const fixParams = params.filter(param => param !== '');
    options[fixParams[0]] = fixParams.length > 2 ? fixParams.slice(1) : fixParams[1];
  }
  return options;
}

const createSomething = options => {
  console.log('We to create something with this params: ', options);
}

const searchSomething = options => {
  console.log('We to search something with this params: ', options);
}

const editSomething = options => {
  console.log('We to edit something with this params: ', options);
}

const deleteSomething = options => {
  console.log('We to create something with this params: ', options);
}

const processSomething = options => {
  console.log('We to create something with this params: ', options);
}

const noEntry = () => {
  console.log('You must send a valid action');
};

const processAction = options => {
  const action = options.action;
  const actions = {
    create: createSomething,
    search: searchSomething,
    edit: editSomething,
    delete: deleteSomething,
    process: processSomething,
    default: noEntry
  };
  delete options.action;
  const result = actions[action] ? actions[action](options) : actions.default();
  return result;
}

const main = async () => {
  const processArgv = process.argv;
  if (!processArgv[2]) {
    console.log('No entry');
    process.exit(1);
  }
  const options = convertArrayArgumentsToObjectArguments(processArgv.splice(2), separator);
  processAction(options);
}

main();
```

Well at this point we will already have a basis for our new CLI application and from now on depends on the needs of each, so to finish we will give the reference some npm packages that will help your CLI is quite interactive.

## Tools to parse the options entered by the user

If you remember, we take the task of handling the options entered by the user in the command line, there are npm packages that do this for us, but not always install a package for such a simple solution is the best option, so we should think about whether it is really necessary because this adds dependencies to our application and in the long run could affect us in some way, either by security issues or by the simple fact that a package has other dependencies.

So here are some packages that will help you with the management of the options.

- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/minimist" target="_blank" >Minimist</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/yargs" target="_blank" >Yargs</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/commander" target="_blank" >Commander</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/args" target="_blank" >Args</a>

## Tools to add steroids to your CLI

The interactivity of your application is very important, so these tools will support you with the UX allowing your CLI to have multiple selection options, single selection, answer questions, process answers and much more.

- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer" target="_blank" >Inquirer</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/prompts" target="_blank" >Prompts</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/prompt" target="_blank" >Prompt</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/enquirer" target="_blank" >Enquirer</a>

# Chapter five 🎬

The presentation for the previous exercise was made in Spanish and is available in pdf format from the following link: 

* <a href="" target="_blank" >Presentation</a>

Well, it's been a pleasure, until next time. 👽
